Azure Governance Foundations Introduction
=========================================

Contents:
---------

-   [The Opportunity to Accelerate Seems
    Counterintuitive](#the-opportunity-to-accelerate-seems-counterintuitive)

-   [The Cloud Adoption Framework](#the-cloud-adoption-framework)

-   [Executive Summary](#executive-summary-of-a-cloud-center-of-excellence)

-   [History](#history)

-   [A Proven Approach](#a-new-approach-to-an-old-problem)

-   [Cloud First](#cloud-first)

-   [It’s Culture not Cloud](#what-is-a-ccoe)

-   [What is a CCoE](#what-is-a-ccoe)

-   [Do I need Azure Governance
    Foundations?](#do-i-need-the-azure-governance-foundations)

### The Opportunity to Accelerate Seems Counterintuitive

The characteristics of the public cloud - agility, flexibility, and
consumption-based pricing - are of paramount importance to organizations that
need to move quickly in the face an evolving business landscape. But many
enterprises struggle to realize these benefits. Perhaps this is not surprising
when historically enterprise IT, while trying to ensure that systems were
effectively governed and secured, were often seen as slow to react and in the
most extreme cases as draconian in their approach. Bringing such historical
governance frameworks into a cloud first world can prove challenging at best.

This gave rise to the notion (arguably the misconception) that creating a
comprehensive governance system and its accompanying ‘bureaucracy’ would slow
the business down to the point where it would negate any gains realized from
using the cloud.

Creating governing bodies (or realigning existing ones) in order to achieve
speed and agility does seem counterintuitive at first blush. And, in fairness,
the addition of governance will not guarantee the desired results. What is
described in these documents is a framework for changing the way enterprise IT
does business. The change is both organization and just as critically
*cultural*.

When we look at enterprises who have successfully pivoted to the cloud, we find
that they typically address the topics of governance and culture early to ensure
the effective use of the cloud within the enterprise. They have a general
approach of building and securing their cloud before anyone can use it. A common
analogy used among these organizations is “building the house” before letting
anyone occupy it.

To follow the analogy of a house being built (where a well-governed cloud is the
outcome) consider what governing bodies are involved. In America, most
communities have city planners, building departments, permitting, inspection and
code enforcement requirements (a prospective home builder might consider this
too much bureaucracy!). These groups may not operate efficiently and quickly in
every community, but they have brought us safer and more standardized
structures. When the time comes to replace a door or electrical outlet, the
relentless drive for standardization and safety mean that replacements can be
found at any hardware store both locally and across the country.

So too an enterprise’s requirements drive standardization and safety. A business
unit may want to build an application to fit their needs and the application
they build may be well-suited to the task and deliver the business value that
team desires. The question remains: will it be easily maintained, managed and
governed? The governance described in these documents is designed to help the
business unit and their developers by supporting specific standards and
practices and creating pathways to accelerate their deployments.

The prospective home builder, like the application developer may disagree with
some of the standards that are in place (particularly if few or no standards
existed previously) but standards provide the ability to execute at speed and
scale. Knowing that wall studs are placed every 16” on load bearing walls means
that builders need not concern themselves with these details – especially when
industry experts and architects have agreed on that standard.

These documents will give examples of how to create the governing bodies that
will set these standards for the enterprise scaffold, which should be the
foundation of cloud environments. It enables teams to ensure workloads meet the
minimum governance requirements of an organization while allowing business
groups and developers to quickly meeting their own goals.

If the enterprise scaffold isn’t easy to use or flexible, risks arise. When
teams find they can’t easily meet their needs using the tools and services
offered by the enterprise’s IT group, they sometimes go directly to a cloud
provider – without involving enterprise IT. The practice is so widespread it was
given the name “Shadow IT” by the industry. Shadow IT is especially common in
enterprises that have not fully adopted cloud (or not adopted it at all). In
such enterprises, the teams are trying to leverage those enablers that are
available to them, realize the benefits of cloud and drive self-reliance – all
commendable and worthy objectives. The shortcomings of Shadow IT are numerous,
however. A misconfigured setting may expose data, legal and regulatory
compliance are in jeopardy and, less dramatically, there are inefficiencies
since other teams can’t benefit from the service.

Contrary to the opinions that led to the rise of Shadow IT, our experience shows
that foundational governance efforts greatly speed, rather than impede, cloud
growth.

How an enterprise implements this scaffolding and governance varies but the
purpose of the Azure Governance Foundations (AGF) is to provide a concrete
approach to this effort.

The Cloud Adoption Framework
----------------------------

Cloud Adoption Framework (CAF) the One Microsoft approach to cloud adoption in
Azure, consolidating and sharing best practices from Microsoft employees,
partners, and customers. The framework gives enterprise customers a set of
tools, guidance, and narratives that help shape technology, business, and people
strategies for driving desired business outcomes during their adoption effort.

If you haven’t yet reviewed the CAF, it is strongly encouraged you do so now.
The AGF approach is predicated on the CAF and understanding the context it
provides is important and valuable.

![](media/dc42b3f3c9dce421442384f2ccc5b6cb.png)

The CAF provides a comprehensive look at how enterprises might plan, migrate,
and optimize infrastructure in the cloud and focuses on planning, readiness and
adoption during the journey to cloud as well as governance and management as
ongoing activities. The lion’s share of the content is, not surprisingly,
focused on the technology strategies. It details at great length design
patterns, the pillars of software quality and numerous reference architectures.
It also describes organizational alignment so that people can enable cloud
adoption and operations.

The CAF also describes some teams structures like [Cloud Adoption and
Governance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/cloud-adoption/organization/organization-structures)
teams as well as a [Cloud Center of
Excellence](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/cloud-adoption/organization/cloud-center-excellence).
As the CAF is a living document this content has developed and continues to be
enriched with each update. A common request from customers in reviewing this is
how, exactly should I go about implementing these recommendations and how do I
create these teams?

The Azure Governance Foundations provides specific guidance and examples of what
it takes to create these governing bodies, how they can be staffed, what sample
charters looks like for teams as well as how teams interact, realize benefits
and escalate issues. The goal of the AGF is to align the new bodies to the
enterprises long term objectives and to provide a clear roadmap on doing so. The
AGF is here to answer the questions of “How do I create these teams?” and “Where
do I go from here?”.

Executive Summary
-----------------

The CCoE is an evolution of the traditional, legacy IT model operated on-premise
and in customer own datacenters. While the traditional IT model may have served
organizations well, it also had a number of limitations. These limitations were
driven by traditional ITs need both to acquire hardware and to install any
accompanying software. This effort typically created siloed organizations within
IT where each silo managed its own parochial needs. The introduction of public
clouds and in particular, the need for Agile software development meant that
siloed organization such as these created barriers to developing an efficient
public cloud offering.

The CCoE is first and foremost the transformation from IT being an intermediary
for strategy, design and operation (a man-in-the-middle role) to becoming a
partner with the business and adds value as a broker to business providing
knowledge and experience around the evolving technology landscapes that cloud
creates.

The CCoE helps customers build a modern IT organization that follows an agile
approach and follows cloud-native principles like using reusable deployment
packages that align with security, compliance, and service management policies;
and maintaining a functional cloud platform that aligns with operational
procedures. The CCoE utilizes DevOps principles combined with cloud native
service management and security controls to empower IT to deliver products and
services with speed, agility, and control.

Enterprises are increasingly adopting the public cloud for its agility and
flexibility. They utilize the cloud's strengths to generate revenue and optimize
resource usage for the business. Microsoft Azure provides a multitude of
services and capabilities that enterprises assemble like building blocks to
address a wide array of workloads and applications.

History
-------

As mentioned in the introduction, enterprise IT departments, while trying to
ensure that systems are effectively governed and secured, were often seen as
slow to react and in the most extreme cases as draconian in their approach.

Why was the that the case?

Traditionally IT departments were concerned with the infrastructure in their
datacenter. Whether that datacenter was thousands of square feet of raised floor
and rows of racks or just an office (sometimes even a closet) with a mix of
gear. The IT department was responsible for all of it – from purchasing it, to
racking and stacking the equipment, not to mention networking, power, cooling
and of course maintenance and patching. It was a challenging responsibility and
IT departments needed to exact strong control measures on the systems they had
as well as the process for acquiring new systems. Someone had to consider the
footprint, power consumption and other aspects of adding new hardware.

Generally speaking, making changes to existing systems or adding new systems
were a time-consuming effort. Change tickets needed to be created,
authorizations provided, systems updated and ultimately personnel sent to
address the request.

As virtualization software became mainstream this process was simplified
somewhat and generally accounted for an improvement in the time to fulfill
requests. IT departments would tend to overprovision their hypervisor hosts with
more compute and memory than was currently required (rather than rightsizing the
hardware to meet the current request) with the understanding that the business
would grow into that additional capacity. In this way they could use software
defined computing to carve out “virtual machines” from the hardware and
provision them. Likewise, they could also overcommit the hosts they had adding
more virtual machines than should be possible, based on their paper
requirements. This was possible by virtue of the hypervisor software and the
fact that virtual machines rarely used all the resources that they were spec’d
to require.

But even with the improvements brought about by virtualization and software
defined resources (compute, network most notably) the process to request a new
virtual machine did not improve commensurate with the technology. Legacy
systems, intrenched processes and a lack of automation in IT service management
continued to plague many companies.

Enter the world of cloud. The earliest days of the cloud were marked by a
frustration with the speed and service offered by IT departments (a problem that
persists in some organizations). Business units would find that the IT
departments simply moved too slowly either in fulfilling requests, be that for
new virtual machines or in acquiring new hardware. In frustration, they would go
directly to cloud providers and sign up for the services they wanted, getting
access to these services in just a few minutes (where IT might take days, weeks
or even longer). And so “Shadow IT” was born.

Shadow IT left the enterprise IT in an extremely difficult situation. IT is
tasked with keeping the organization’s systems, networks and data secured but
they might not even know about the existence of these Shadow IT systems and if
they did know of them, they might not have access to them.

![](media/1e091229a96d0f101a8fc6338dfb6e59.png)

Obviously, this was a situation that could not be allowed to continue. In a
world where GDPR and other regulatory requirements create steep fines and
penalties, IT departments needed to regain control. And so companies began to
adopt cloud more broadly (and sometimes reluctantly) and offer the business
cloud services the need for Shadow IT has diminished to a degree. But how would
IT manage a cloud with infinite capacity? A cloud where users might spin up
hundreds of machines accidently or otherwise, was a cloud that presented the IT
department with a new set of problems. Even if they could control the costs, how
would they secure the systems? Assure good governance? Monitor the health of
these services?

A common approach is to take the existing model from their on-premise
datacenters and apply this to the cloud. The IT department asserts control by
acting as a cloud custodian using a man-in-the-middle approach. All request for
cloud resources go through the cloud custodian.

While this approach returns control back to the IT department, it also greatly
reduces the value of the cloud to bring speed and agility to the organization.
The approach works but at the cost of reducing the true potential of the cloud.

A proven approach
-----------------

As described above, the perception of IT departments as slow, cumbersome and
sometimes draconian are not baseless but, in fairness, the reasons that these
management practices arose were reasonable reactions to a changing technology
landscape.

Still there has to be a better approach to cloud than stopping everyone who has
a request for cloud services and forcing them through a provisioning process.
The cloud custodian can only manage a fixed number of requests, if the company
requires more cloud resources than the custodian can manage, the requests sit
idle. The longer the requests sit idle the more the requestor might be lured
back into the Shadow IT world.

![](media/ec4755e247b53db05b9c39ba00c73a3e.png)

#### A better approach than stopping every request and manually addressing it would be a system where requests can be self-service but also one where they are automatically provisioned in a manner that meets the corporate governance, security and compliance requirements.

Think of it as a round-about (or traffic circle) where request can come through,
be addressed safely and without needing to stop. “Guardrails” are in place to
ensure that the requests do not go “off the road”.

In theory this sounds wonderful. No one slows down, and all the corporation’s
requirements are also met. But in practice, this is not a common approach today.
Part of the reason for this is that many of the cloud-native tools that afford
this approach are relatively new. In fact, the entire AGF approach is predicated
on a few technological requirements that the cloud must provide. These are the
mechanisms to enforce policies on new requests and either reject those that
don’t comply or modify the resulting service in such a way that it will be in
compliance. In the case of Azure, these mechanisms are Azure Policies,
Management Groups and Azure Blueprints. Absent these mechanisms, new requests
would need to pass through a dizzying number of scripts (all of which would need
to be created and maintained) in order to enact some similar degree of control.
By taking advance of the controls the cloud natively provides we can govern in a
“cloud first” model with relative ease.

Cloud First
-----------

The term “Cloud First” is becoming widely used in the industry and so it is
worth taking a moment to define it here in the context of AGF.

Cloud first refers to a mindset where cloud is the de facto platform, rather
than an option or an afterthought. In 2010 Steve Ballmer, Microsoft’s then-CEO,
famously said that “We’re all in.” with respect to cloud computing. That quote,
while commonly associated with playing poker (certainly such a move was
considered a gamble by some at the time) also meant that every aspect of
Microsoft would begin to think about cloud first, rather than the traditional
enterprise datacenter that had been the mainstay of the company’s fortunes.

Cloud first is sometimes used interchangeably with “Cloud Native” but for the
purposes of the AGF we will delineate them. Cloud native describes organizations
that were created during the cloud era, and so their behaviors are naturally
cloud first. These organizations did not need to transform from a datacenter
model to a cloud model -often giving them a tremendous advantage.

A company that is cloud first understands that when software is developed and
deployed, cloud *is* the destination. When operating with this mindset, many of
the methods previously used are quickly called into question.

![](media/b3441ac2c438b380b9eba7f8be4e3f97.png)

For traditional enterprises there are two paths that can be taken to cloud.

The first approach, which is ubiquitous, is to treat the cloud as an extension
of the on-premise datacenter (albeit a much larger extension). Existing
processes, controls and procedures are applied to the cloud. Tooling used
on-premise is extended into the cloud. Agents for monitoring, patching and
management are installed and report back to existing servers on-premise. This
approach is a natural evolution of the IT approaches that are in place. This
approach is relatively easy to implement and, in most way, maintain the status
quo. While this approach is widespread and brings some of the value of cloud to
the organization, it falls short of realizing the full potential of the cloud.
Cloud native tooling is shunted aside in favor of existing solutions, which are
by-definition not cloud first. The agility and flexibility that cloud promises
are traded for predictability and compatibility to existing systems.

The second approach, cloud first, requires a deep reexamination of IT’s
approach. Cloud native tooling is used whenever possible, in favor of existing
systems (this is not to suggest that a cloud first model cannot embrace a hybrid
approach). The argument being that the companies responsible for the cloud have
both a strong interest in providing the best tools they can for their customers
and that the cloud provider is in a position to deliver tooling that no outside
company could hope to match. After all, the cloud provider already uses systems
for security controls, service management and monitoring – systems they spend
billions of dollars to maintain – when they offer such systems to their
customers it seems unlikely any outside ISV would be able to match the
offerings.

The trade-off to a cloud first approach is that two sets of tools may exist
while there is still an on-premise datacenter.

Cloud first is also deeply ties in with DevOps, agile development and modern
service management. Since the AGF is focused on creating the foundations of a
well governed cloud, we will not focus deeply on these topics but they are
critical to ongoing success of the cloud after the foundation are set.

### End State

The fullest expression of cloud first is an environment where developers can
deploy code via their CI/CD pipeline directly into the cloud. Such deployments
would be fully under the control of the development team, without the explicit
permissions or approvals from the IT department. The CI/CD pipeline would create
any cloud resources that are needed, and the cloud would automatically provision
those resources in a manner that was consistent with the security, monitoring
and other governance policies. In fact, in such an environment there would be no
need for the cloud portal, since all access would be programmatic and secured.
Cloud portals are entirely dependent on human interaction and are at greatest
risk of human error.

### Do you need to be “All In”?

A question that is often asked by customers who are on their cloud journey is do
I need to be “Cloud First”, do I need to be “All In”?

Often times when considering the end state of a cloud first model, as described
above, people are left to wonder if that state of affairs isn’t simply beyond
their immediate grasp. In many cases, that end state is a bridge too far; but it
is with limitation this in mind that the AGF was created.

Knowing that many customers will not reach a one-touch deployment world for some
time, if ever, the AGF sets customers on the cloud first path, even if they
won’t make the full journey. Moreover the AGF is designed in a way that will
minimize the customer’s technical debt should they decide to take the next step
on the cloud first journey. Simply put, the AGF can help any customer
organization “build the house” in a way that does everything possible to
future-proof them for changes they may want to make at a later date.

Do I need the Azure Governance Foundations?
-------------------------------------------

Setting up and operationalizing cloud governing bodies is not a trivial matter.
The goal of the AGF is to help customers create a secure and well-governed Azure
environment, ready to deploy workloads The AGF can be undertaken by almost any
customer, from those who are just beginning their cloud journey to ones who are
already deeply invested in cloud but want to modernize their IT approach.

While the fullest expression of the AGF may be an organization that implements a
zero touch, infrastructure as code environment - not all customers are willing
nor ready to make the full extent of that journey. AGF is designed to formalize
the creation and to operationalize a cloud governing bodies with a focus on the
rhythm of business required to properly execute.

This AGF provides a structure for customers to implement, manage, and operate
their Azure platform. The AGF uses agile DevOps principles combined with
cloud-native service management and security controls to help drive business
innovation, increase agility, and reduce time to value within a secure,
predictable and flexible services delivery and operations management capability.

If your organization is looking for an approach that will help them secure
predictable but flexible cloud, faster adoption of cloud services, reduced time
to market and a more efficient use of the cloud – the Azure Governance
Foundation may be a good place to start. The AGF is meant to provide the
guidance needed to enable the customer realize the full value cloud, as well as
making IT an integral part of their organization and valued business partner.

![](media/5c066e1ea93077708f9a02a92d464623.png)
