FAQs
====

Do I need to follow the AGF to the letter?
==========================================

No. Businesses differ wildly in their organizational structures, cultures and
approaches. It is important to remember that the guidance provided by the AGF is
just that – *guidance*. Your organization may outsource some functions or have
grouped teams along different domains historically. That’s okay. The AGF will
highlight the places where there is flexibility in the model so that you can
adapt your implementation appropriately.

What if I need help?
====================

If you need help implementing the AGF approach there are a few options available
to you.

Partners

Microsoft

CSUs/CSA

Whiteglove

1.  *Why are workloads specific deliverables not included in this document?*

Since there is so much variance in customers and workloads, we have omitted
prescriptive guidance for workloads here. We encourage the Partner to include at
least one sample workload in their SOW (based on discovery) so that the
customer’s CCoE can confirm the work they have done provides the proper
framework for applications.

1.  *Does my customer need to be ready to commit to a “Cloud-First” approach?*

Not at all. The creation of a governance team is valuable to cloud-first
organizations as well as traditional hybrid enterprises. This approach has shown
value across a wide range of customers. Best of all, the approach described here
minimizes the architectural debt associated with continuing this journey towards
a cloud-first organization.

1.  *Can my organization depart from this guidance when creating our SOW?*

Yes! We know our Partners are diverse and have differing expertise that can be
brought to bear towards these ends. We fully support that. The main driver for
this document is to provide prescriptive guidance for Partner organizations who
may not have significant experience with creating cloud governance bodies. If
your organization has already created specific IP that you wish to deliver, we
encourage you to do so. The only requirement is that the customer ends up with a
functional governance body that has created a well-governed and managed Azure
environment that is ready to accept production workloads.

1.  *Should the embedded partners be voting members of the committees?*

This question is best addressed by the existing relationship between the
customer and the partner. If the partner is a well-established trusted advisor
already it’s natural that they could have voice in shaping technical decisions
at the committee level (especially if they have done some degree of this
decision making elsewhere in the customer’s organization).

Other customers may welcome the feedback and advice of partners but not want to
give them any direct voice in the decisions that will govern their business
processes and assets in the cloud (or they may have regulatory compliance
requirements which forbid it). In these cases, the partner can be seated on the
committee as a purely advisory role.
